---
layout: post
title: How to pack your bag
date: '2017-12-31 00:20:14 +0000'
author: roby
categories: travel
permalink: /posts/packing
header: /assets/img/header/packing_header.jpg
published: true
---

<span class="dropcap">Y</span>ou are here! Congratulations for having identified your first traveler problem.

Don’t feel stressed, you are suffering from a very common travel problem: The Packing Nightmare!!

You have too much stuff to take with you and you just realized your bag is too small. Or you need some tips from experienced travelers in how they have found the best packing strategies to survive this daunting task.
Either way, here we are to give you some advice and tips! From our experience, if not managed properly this is may be the most energy drawing task prior to traveling ever discovered!!


The first step when packing a traveling bag is to choose your main luggage. Are you planning to take a rolling luggage, travel backpack or carry-on/cabin bag? Also, it’s very important to choose a good quality bag for your trip! You don’t want to carry a bag with broken wheels or zips, or that is heavy and uncomfortable to carry with you all time and you end up more exausted of taking your things around than from exploring new places!

After knowing for sure what kind of bag you will be taking with you, identify your categories. From those, you can separate and prioritize by level of importance each single thing you are planning on adding to your bag. Well, less talking, more doing, let us begin!

### Our Categories

1. Clothes
2. Medicine
3. Documents
4. Personal hygiene/beauty products
5. Tech Utilities
6. Non-Tech Utilities
7. Work related materials

Everything you can’t put in the above categories is not worth your time, meaning that you should get rid of them!

This is a perfect moment to examine the things you have been collecting since your last trip or last spring cleanings! Use this moment as a good opportunity to get rid of clothes you don’t use anymore, electronics, furniture, books, and all the other stuff you don’t even remember when (or why) you got it!
We suggest you to ask your familiars and friends if they want anything, sell things in a second-hand store, or donate clothes and books to help centers and not just throw them away.

Before we move to the second step, you should invest some time to reflect in your trip.
How many days/weeks/months are you planning to travel? How is the weather in the destination(s)?
How Is the laundry situation there, do you have washing machines or locals normally wash their clothes by hand?

If you plan for a long trip, going from 3 weeks to several months like we did, the best thing to do is to choose enough clothes for one week and some extra extra underwear just in case. Also, having something warm can be a good idea since most countries have a north and more cold region that you may want to visit. Don’t focus too much in pullovers or jackets, just bring a comfortable piece for colder nights!
In this situation, quality over quantity is a must! You don’t want to be heavy while traveling, full of clothes you don't use in your backpack!

If you are planning a trip to a tropical, hot and humid country, you should take quick drying and loose clothes so you can dry them without complications at your sleeping place.
For hot countries, always bring something to cover your head like a scarf.
Additionally, if you are going to a country where mosquitoes are a common problem, focus in bringing long-sleeved but still light clothes.

Shorts can be a good asset while traveling in hot countries but take into account that you will need some jeans for most of the Temples/Pagodas/Churches you visit (and forget about top tanks and so on!). Also, if you plan to visit a cultural/socialy strickted country, it's important to take that scarf so you can cover your shoulders and hair.

When you are ready, theres more to be done! But ei, it's for the dream! Now it’s time to get into the specifics:

### Exemple-list of Clothes:

- Jeans/Pants
- Skirts/Dresses (not the best option if you plan on visiting religious/sacret places or just cultural/socialy strickted countries)
- Shorts (same as above)
- Underwear (bring always an extra pair or two)
- Long-sleeve shirts
- T-shirts
- Pajamas/sleepwear
- Jacket (only for cold countries)
- Rain Coat (if you plan on traveling to a rainy destination or during rain/monsoon season)
- Scarf/bandana or Hat
- Gloves (only for cold countries)
- Belt
- Bikini/Beach clothes (for beach destinations)
- Fitness clothes and shoes
- Flip Flops/sandals (always a good option for showering in hostels)
- Quick drying Towel (perfect asset for fast travelers or hostel surfers)
- Sunglasses and glasses case
- Jewelry (take as less as you can and try to organize it in small boxes)

### Medicine (for some of the items, be carefull if you choose the liquid versions because of flight restrictions!):
<ul>
<li>Medicine for pain and fever (E.g.: acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen)</li>
<li>Diarrhea medicine (Examples: loperamide [Imodium] or bismuth subsalicylate [Pepto-Bismol]</li>
<li>Antihistamine</li>
<li>Oral rehydration salts</li>
<li>Eye drops</li>
<li>Sunscreen</li>
<li>Digital thermometer</li>
<li>Bandages (multiple sizes)</li>
<li>Adhesive tape</li>
<li>Elastic/compression bandage wrap</li>
<li>Scissors and safety pins (if you have a checked luggage)</li>
<li>Antifungal ointments</li>
<li>Antibacterial ointments</li>
<li>Antiseptic wound cleanser</li>
<li>Insect bite treatment (Anti-itch gel or cream)</li>
<li>Medicines and vaccinations specific to the region/activity (E.g. Medicine to prevent Malaria, Tiphoid Fever Vaccine, Hepatites Vaccine)</li>
<li>Insect repellent (E.g.: DEET spray, from 20%-50%; Mosquito Coils; Lemon Eucalyptus spray, or other natural solutions. Be aware of each product efficacy and that sometimes you will need strong solutions (traveling during monsoon)!</li>
</ul>


<h3>Documents:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Passport</li>
<li>Vaccination documents</li>
<li>Personal ID/Student ID card if you have it</li>
<li>Frequent flyer card(s) and other loyalty program card numbers</li>
<li>Extra passport-sized photos (up to 3/4 for Visas on Arrival)</li>
<li>Several passport-copies (so you don't go around with your original passport and alwayas have a copy to give if asked)</li>
<li>Several visa copies (e-visa, Visa letters, etc.)</li>
<li>Cash and Credit/Debit cards (for international solutions we recommend REVOLUT! Always inform your bank of your  trip so they don’t block your account preventing fraud)</li>
<li>Copies of your most used medicine prescriptions</li>
<li>Visa needed documentation (specific for each country – check country visa official websites before departure)/li>
<li>Travel and medical insurance (optional; important if you plan on doing sport/radical activities, but also how many months you will be away since most insurances require that you travel back home after some weeks)</li>
<li>Acommodation reservations and itineraries – print them and save them electronically for easy ofline access</li>
<li>Hotel and/or tour contact information printed</li>
<li>Transportation tickets printed (plane, train, bus, car, etc.)</li>
<li>Emergency contacts and important addresses (a good idea is a small notebook where you can have all writen down)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Hygiene products:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Deodorant (flower scent not recommended for hot and humid countries – attracts mosquitoes and insects!)</li>
<li>Hand sanitizer (or wipes if you only travel a week or so)</li>
<li>Razors (if you have a checked luggage)</li>
<li>Perfume (flower scent not recommended for hot and humid countries – attracts mosquitoes and insects!)</li>
<li>Toothbrush, toothpaste, floss, mouthwash</li>
<li>Hair brush, hair ties, barrettes/bobby pins (if you can't live without them)</li>
<li>Body lotion (take it in a small refilling bottle)</li>
<li>Face cream (take it in a small refilling bottle)</li>
<li>Make up (if you can't live whithout your favourite products, but take less as possible because later you will find out that most of those things don't matter)</li>
<li>Shower gel our soap (take the first in a small refiling bottle)</li>
<li>Shampoo (take it in a small refiling bottle)</li>
<li>Conditioner or hair hidratation mask(take it in a small refiling bottle)</li>
<li>Feminine hygiene products: Pads and tampons of your favorite brand (difficult to find in some countries)</li>
<li>Lip balm with SPF</li>
<li>Contraceptive pills/Condoms (or other methods you prefer, always take more than needed!)</li>
<li>Scissors, nail clippers, and tweezers (if you have a checked luggage)</li>
<li>Toilet paper (in some countries you will have a hard time finding it! E.g: India, remote parts of Malaysia)</li>
<li>Tissues (just enough for emergency, you can always buy them on minimarkets or use toilet paper)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Tech Utilities</h3>
<ul>
<li>Mobile device and charger</li>
<li>Laptop and cables/charger</li>
<li>Mouse and mousepad (if you need to set up your personal workspace)</li>
<li>Speakers and headphones (if you need to set up your personal workspace)</li>
<li>Camera, charger and cables</li>
<li>Memory cards (always two or more)</li>
<li>USB Drives (with documents saved inside)</li>
<li>Electric converters and adapters (if you come from EU like us, this is a must when traveling to India, Malaysia, Indonesia, US, Australia, Singapore, and some other countries!)</li>
<li>Powerbank and cable (one is enough, but has to be good, otherwise leave it at home!)</li>
<li>Mini flashlight</li>
<li>Memory drive (the other more light option is to just have a online back up system)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Non-Tech Utilities</h3>
<ul>
<li>Passport holder/money belt (prevents theft and scams! Some examples are the neck wallet, leg wallet, having hidden pockets)</li>
<li>Reusable water bottle/canteen</li>
<li>Shower cap (if you don't want to wet your hair everytime you take a shower, but not a must!)</li>
<li>Wireless Sports Headphones (one of the best things we brought with us!)</li>
<li>Book (to read while traveling) or E-Book reader</li>
<li>Necessaires/organizers for your backpack, plastic bags that you can use for almost anything, (we used cloth bags as a budget/minimalist option for the organizers!)</li>
<li>Sturdy Folder for Printed Documents or something of this kind</li>
<li>Pocket knife (if you have checked luggage)</li>
<li>Laundry bag (in order to separate those from the rest of the cloths!)</li>
<li>Daypack or small bag</li>
<li>Sleeping bag (handy also if you don't trust the linen given by the acommodation palces you will be staying at)</li>
<li>Some pens</li>
<li>Card holder</li>
<li>A small tape (really handy when we where in India to fix mosquitoe nets!)</li>
<li>Travel pillow, eye mask and ear plugs (only if you have a hard time sleeping in airplanes! We took them with us and we found it pretty useless!)</li>
<li>Sewing kit/clothing care kit (a must! But only if you have checked luggage)</li>
<li>Travel guides, maps, language guides, other related materials (if you  need any of these upon arrival at your destination, don't forget to put them in your carry-on bag)</li>
<li>Luggage travel locks (if you take laptops and cameras, it's a must! Always lock your bag when you leave it at the acommodation site, even if you have a private room. There will be always desperate people!)</li>
</ul>

<p>Something more Tech, it's very important for you to invest some time in figuring out the best travel apps for your trip.
You should consider a language/translation app, a directions app, a drive/backup app Like Google Drive or other from your online backups system, daylily financial management app (or just an excel app with your own spreadsheets like we did) and your bank app. It would be smart to invest also in airline apps where you can do the online check-in and show your flight ticket with your phone (so you don’t have to worry about printing tickets!).</p>

<p>After having a list of all the things you want to bring with you, it's time to the actual packing!
First, we suggest that you roll up your clothes to better use of space in your bag!</p>


Not everything listed is mandatory because every trip is an unique experience with unique necessities!
You should always adapt and be flexible to each situation. When you travel you get the experience that helps you identify the things you REALLY need.
  
  
We suggest you to give special attention to Medicine and Documents Items because those leave small space for improvisation while traveling! When you need them, or you have them or you don't, and then is up to you to find a solution (and most of the times it's an headache)!


When packing, start from the less used items (e.g heavy cloths, towel), and end up with the most used ones (e.g scarf, dayly higiene products) or the ones you must take at security-check points at the aiports. Most of the times, you can fit your sleeping bag outside of your backpack (if you're using one) or just put it in the botton of your luggage if it's a rolling case.


Always separate your electronics from the rest of the items so, in case you need to use them, you don't have to undo your entire bag just to get them!


You should think about diferent unexpect scenarios like the airline or a bus company losing your main luggage, you getting sick, you getting lost, getting robbed and so on, and then use your common sence! We always bring with us some exchance cloths and basic hygiene products on the carry-on backpack so if tomorrow we lose the big bag, we can survive it!

We are always updating this lists so if you have suggestions, be sure to let us know by contact link!

We wish you a pleasant trip and hope that your worries are not related to packing anymore! 😉
