---
layout: post
title:  "20 Days of India - Goa"
date:   2018-01-04 00:20:14 +0000
author: roby
categories: travel
permalink: /posts/goa
header: '/assets/img/header/goa.jpeg'
---

You are here! Congratulations for having identified your first traveler problem.

Don’t feel stressed, you are suffering from a very common travel problem: The Packing Nightmare!!

You have too much stuff to take with you and you just realized your bag is too small. Or you need some tips from experienced travelers in how have they found the best packing strategies to survive this daunting task.
Either way, here we are to give you some advice and tips! From our experience, if not managed properly this is may be the most energy drawing task prior to traveling.

The first step when packing a traveling bag is to choose your main luggage. Are you planning to take a rolling luggage, travel backpack or carry-on/cabin bag? Also, it’s very important to choose a good quality bag for your trip! You don’t want to carry a bag with broken wheels or zips, or that is heavy and uncomfortable to carry with you all time.

Then, identify your categories. From those, you can separate things and prioritize by level of importance. Let’s begin!

<h3>Categories</h3>
<ul>
<li>Clothes</li>
<li>Medicine</li>
<li>Documents</li>
<li>Hygiene products</li>
<li>Tech Utilities</li>
<li>Non-Tech Utilities</li>
<li>Work materials (laptops, cameras, etc.)</li>
</ul>
Everything you can’t put in the above categories is not worth your time, meaning that you should get rid of them! This is a perfect moment to examine the things you have been collecting since your last trip or last cleanings! Use this moment as a good opportunity to get rid of clothes you don’t use anymore, electronics, furniture, books, and all the other stuff you don’t even remember when you got it! We suggest you to ask your familiars and friends if they want anything, sell things in a second-hand store, or donate clothes and books to help centers and so on.

Before we move to the second step, you should invest some time to reflect in your trip. How many days/weeks/months are you planning to travel? How is the weather in the destination(s)? How Is the laundry situation there, do you have washing machines or locals normally wash clothes by hand?
If you plan for a long trip, going from 3 weeks to several months like we did, the best thing to do is to choose enough clothes for one week and some extra t-shirts and extra underwear just in case. In this situation, quality over quantity is a must! You don’t want to be heavy while traveling, full of clothes in your backpack!

If you are planning a trip to a tropical, hot and/or humid country, you should take quick drying and loose clothes so you can dry them without complications. Don’t focus too much in pullovers or jackets, just bring a comfortable piece for colder nights! Always bring something to cover your head if it’s a hot country, like a scarf.
Additionally, if you are going to a country where mosquitoes are a common problem, focus in bringing long-sleeved clothes.
Let’s move to the next step! Now it’s time to get into specifics:

<h3>Clothes:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Jeans/Pants</li>
<li>Skirts/Dresses</li>
<li>Shorts</li>
<li>Underwear</li>
<li>Long-sleeve shirts</li>
<li>T-shirts</li>
<li>Pajamas/sleepwear</li>
<li>Jacket</li>
<li>Rain Coat</li>
<li>Scarf/bandana</li>
<li>Hat</li>
<li>Gloves</li>
<li>Belt</li>
<li>Bikini/Beach clothes</li>
<li>Fitness clothes and shoes</li>
<li>Flip Flops - sandals</li>
<li>Quick drying Towels</li>
<li>Sunglasses and glasses case</li>
<li>Jewelry (take as less as you can and try to organize it in small boxes)</li>

<h3>Medicine:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Medicine for pain and fever (E.g.: acetaminophen, aspirin, or ibuprofen)</li>
<li>Diarrhea medicine (Examples: loperamide [Imodium] or bismuth subsalicylate [Pepto-Bismol]</li>
<li>Antihistamine</li>
<li>Oral rehydration salts</li>
<li>Eye drops</li>
<li>Sunscreen</li>
<li>Digital thermometer</li>
<li>Bandages (multiple sizes)</li>
<li>Adhesive tape</li>
<li>Elastic/compression bandage wrap</li>
<li>Scissors and safety pins</li>
<li>Antifungal ointments</li>
<li>Antibacterial ointments</li>
<li>Antiseptic wound cleanser</li>
<li>Insect bite treatment (Anti-itch gel or cream)</li>
<li>Medicines and vaccinations specific to the region/activity (E.g. Medicine to prevent Malaria)</li>
<li>Insect repellent (E.g.: DEET spray, from 20%-50%; Mosquito Coils; Lemon Eucalyptus spray, or other natural solutions (be aware of each product efficacy))</li>
</ul>


<h3>Documents:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Passport</li>
<li>Vaccination documents</li>
<li>Personal ID/Student ID card</li>
<li>Frequent flyer card(s) and other loyalty program card numbers</li>
<li>Extra passport photos</li>
<li>Several passport-copies</li>
<li>Several visa copies (from passport and/or e-visa, if applies)</li>
<li>Cash and Credit/Debit cards (for international solutions, we recommend REVOLUT! Always inform your bank of your trip so they don’t block your account  to prevent fraud)</li>
<li>Copies of your medic prescriptions</li>
<li>Visa needed documentation (specific for each country – check country visa official websites before departure)</li>
<li>Travel and medical insurance (it’s only a must if you’re planning to do sports activities or stay in remote locations)</li>
<li>Reservations and itineraries – print them and save them electronically for easy access</li>
<li>Hotel and/or tour contact information</li>
<li>Transportation tickets (plane, train, bus, car, etc.)</li>
<li>Emergency contacts and important addresses</li>
</ul>

<h3>Hygiene products:</h3>
<ul>
<li>Deodorant (flower scent not recommended for hot and humid countries – attracts mosquitoes!)</li>
<li>Hand sanitizer or wipes</li>
<li>Razors</li>
<li>Perfume (flower scent not recommended for hot and humid countries – attracts mosquitoes!)</li>
<li>Toothbrush, toothpaste, floss, mouthwash</li>
<li>Hair brush or comb, hair ties, barrettes/bobby pins (if applies)</li>
<li>Body lotion</li>
<li>Face cream</li>
<li>Make up (if applies)</li>
<li>Shower gel</li>
<li>Shampoo</li>
<li>Conditioner</li>
<li>Feminine hygiene products: Pads and tampons of your favorite brand (difficult to find in some countries)</li>
<li>Lip balm with SPF</li>
<li>Contraceptive pill/Condoms (or other methods you prefer)</li>
<li>Soap</li>
<li>Scissors, nail clippers, and tweezers (must be in checked luggage)</li>
<li>Toilet paper (in some countries you will have a hard time finding it!)</li>
<li>Tissues</li>
</ul>

<h3>Tech Utilities</h3>
<ul>
<li>Mobile device and charger</li>
<li>Laptop and cables/charger</li>
<li>Mouse and mousepad (if applies)</li>
<li>Speakers and headphones (if applies)</li>
<li>Camera, charger and cables</li>
<li>Memory cards</li>
<li>USB Drives</li>
<li>Electric converters and adapters</li>
<li>Powerbank and cable</li>
<li>Mini flashlight</li>
</ul>

<h3>Non-Tech Utilities</h3>
<ul>
<li>Passport holder/money belt (prevents theft and scams, neck wallet/leg wallet/hidden pockets)</li>
<li>Reusable water bottle</li>
<li>Shower cap (if applies)</li>
<li>Wireless Sports Headphones</li>
<li>Book (to read while traveling)</li>
<li>Necessaires/organizers for your backpack</li>
<li>Foldable Reusable Bag</li>
<li>Sturdy Folder for Printed Documents</li>
<li>Pocket knife</li>
<li>Plastic bags (always useful!)</li>
<li>Laundry bag (separator for your backpack)</li>
<li>Daypack</li>
<li>Sleeping bag (if applies)</li>
<li>Notebook and pens</li>
<li>Card holder</li>
<li>Tape</li>
<li>Travel pillow, eye mask and ear plugs (if applies)</li>
<li>Sewing kit/clothing care kit</li>
<li>Guide books, travel guides, maps, language guides, etc. (if you will need any of these upon arrival at your destination, put it in your carry-on)</li>
<li>Laptop lockers</li>
<li>Luggage travel lock</li>
</ul>

<p>It is very important for you to invest some time in figuring out the best travel apps for your trip. You should consider a language/translation app, a directions app, daylily financial management app and a money conversion app. It would be smart to invest also in airline apps where you can do the online check-in and take your flight ticket in you phone (so you don’t have to worry about printing tickets!).</p>
<p>As a last tip, we suggest that you roll up your clothes to better use of space in your bag!</p>
<p>Not everything listed is mandatory because every trip is an unique experience with unique necessities! You should always adapt and be flexible to each situation. When you travel you get experience that helps you identify the things you REALLY need. Just be sure to give special attention to Medicine and Documents Items, because those leave small space for improvisation while traveling!
We are always updating this lists so if you have suggestions, be sure to let us know by contact link!
We wish you a pleasant trip and hope that your worries are not related to packing anymore! 😉
</p>
